---
layout: post
ST 558 Project 1 Blog Post
---

Link to vignette: https://jlspeer2.github.io/project1

I found this project was very helpful in giving me a lot of practice to familiarze myself more with Git, RMarkdown, and various aspects of R, such as writing functions, creating graphics with `ggplot2`, and pulling data from a web API. These are all skills that are not only very useful for my professional life, but also I find personally interesting and enjoy practicing.

The biggest thing I would do differently is give myself more time. There were a lot of things I would have liked to explore more and tightened up in my vignette. There are a lot of little details that take time to really address. I also probably would have spent less time on generating the function that calls in the data, and more time on the data exploration, again since there are so many details involved there.

The most difficult part for me was getting set up with Git. This was the one aspect of the project that I had previous been completely inexperienced with. However, I am so glad that we are using Git because this is an initiative that we've been wanting to take in my center at work. Now that I have some experience I feel I may be able to lead the charge.

My big take-aways are to definitely take time when it comes to this sort of work. There are a million things that can go wrong and troubleshooting takes a lot of time. I also found the discussion board incredibly helpful and referenced it many times. I have completely fallen in love with Git and RMarkdown and am excited to keep using them in this class and also professionally/personally.
