---
layout: post
ST 558 Final Blog Post
---

**What (if anything) has changed about what you think a data scientist is and what they do?**

I would say I didn't realize the extent of the crossover between data science, computer science, and engineering. It has been really cool to explore some of the ways data science branches into these other fields (and vice versa).

**What your current thoughts are in terms of using R for data science - do you think you'll continue to use R going forward?  Why or why not?**

I really like using R for data science. I will definitely continue to use R for data science. I find it intuitive, I like the open-source community aspect, and I love that RStudio links directly to GitHub. I am also planning to become more familiar with Python (via self-directed learning), mostly because it is another good tool to have in the toolbox.

**What things are you going to do differently in practice now that you've had this course?**

Using GitHub is definitely the big one! I am already working on implementing GitHub in my center. I've also been thinking more about using tree based methods for our analyses. We generally stick to linear and logistic regression type analysis, but I think there could be some great opportunities to use different modeling techniques. I am also excited to share some of my new data visualization skills with my colleagues. We have adopted a lot more data viz over the past couple of years and I think making more interactive content is something a lot of my colleagues would be interested in.

Thank you Dr. Post and Subhankar for the great semester! I really enjoyed learning all of this content and also feel like I've built up some skills that will really help me in my career.




